# Highlights
* We explore the relationship between human and [artificial intelligence](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/artificial-intelligence "Learn more about artificial intelligence from ScienceDirect's AI-generated Topic Pages") based on theory of love.
* **Human users can develop intimacy and passion with an intelligent assistant.**
* Intimacy and passion can promote user’s commitment to and usage of an intelligent assistant
* User’s Intimacy and passion is anteceded by performance efficacy and emotional capability of an intelligent assistant

#other

[[Trust Disposition]]

> In computer science, AI research is defined as the study of intelligent agents that perceive environment and take actions to maximize the likelihood of successfully achieving their goals.

**Chapter AI and intelligent assistants**
* a lot of info about AI applications

The traditional focus of AI research is computer technologies that enable machines to simulate human cognitive functions such as learning and problem solving ([[N. Nilsson, Artificial Intelligence: A New Synthesis, Morgan Kaufmann, 1998.]], [[D. Poole, A. Mackworth, R. Goebel, Computational Intelligence: A Logical Approach, Oxford University Press, New York, 1998.]], [[S.J. Russell, P. Norvig, Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 3rd ed., Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, 2009.]])

Unlike scholars of computer science, whose work mainly centers on developing or improving AI techniques, information systems researchers apply AI techniques for management and business problem solving. AI has been explored for its role in decision support and expert systems [[V. Arnold, N. lark, P.A. Collier, S.A. Leech, S.G. Sutton, The differential use and effect of knowledge-based system explanations in novice and expert judgment decisions, MIS Q. 30 (1) (2006) 79–97.]], [[D. Arnott, Cognitive biases and decision support systems development: a design science approach, Inf. Syst. J. 16 (1) (2006) 55–78.]], [[T.D. Clark, M.C. Jones, C.P. Armstrong, The dynamic structure of management support systems: theory development, research focus, and direction, MIS Q. 31 (3) (2007) 579–615.]], [[ M. Ghasemaghaei, S. Ebrahimi, K. Hassanein, Data analytics competency for improving firm decision making performance, J Strategic Inf. Syst. 27 (1) (2018) 101–113]] [[S. Gregor, I. Benbasat, Explanations from Intelligent Systems: theoretical Foundations and Implications for Practice, MIS Q. 23 (4) (1999) 497–530.]], knowledge management [[J.L. Carlo, K. Lyytinen, G.M. Rose, A knowledge-based model of radical innovation in small software firms, MIS Q. 36 (3) (2012) 865–895.]], [[A. Fowler, The role of AI-based technology in support of the knowledge management value activity cycle, J. Strategic Inf. Syst. 9 (2–3) (2000) 107–128.]], financial forecasting [[G. Bansal, A.P. Sinha, H. Zhao, Tuning data mining methods for cost-sensitive regression: a study in loan charge-off forecasting, J. Manag. Inf. Syst. 25 (3) (2008) 315–336.]], [[S. Walczak, An empirical analysis of data requirements for financial forecasting with neural networks, J. Manag. Inf. Syst. 17 (4) (2001) 203–222.]], [[N. Wong, P. Ray, G. Stephens, L. Lewis, Artificial immune systems for the detection of credit card fraud: an architecture, prototype and preliminary results, Inf. Syst. J. 22 (1) (2012) 53–76.]], system design [[V.C. Storey, R.C. Goldstein, Knowledge-based approaches to database design, MIS Q. 17 (1) (1993) 25–46.]], technology investment and innovation [[J.L. Carlo, K. Lyytinen, G.M. Rose, A knowledge-based model of radical innovation in small software firms, MIS Q. 36 (3) (2012) 865–895.]], [[M. Ko, K.M. Osei-Bryson, Using regression splines to assess the impact of information technology investments on productivity in the health care industry, Inf. Syst. J. 14 (1) (2004) 43–63.]], supply chain management [[A. Malhotra, S. Gosain, O.A. Sawy, Absorptive capacity configurations in supply chains: gearing for partner-enabled market knowledge creation, MIS Q. 29 (1) (2005) 145–187.]], [[M.E. Nissen, K. Sengupta, Incorporating software agents into supply chains: experimental investigation with a procurement task, MIS Q. 30 (1) (2006) 145–166.]], and big data analytics [[C. Loebbecke, A. Picot, Reflections on societal and business model transformation arising from digitization and big data analytics: a research agenda, J. Strategic Inf. Syst. 24 (3) (2015) 149–157.]]. Research has recognized the benefits of AI applications across numerous fields, including finance [[M. Fethi, F. Pasiouras, Assessing bank efficiency and performance with operational research and artificial intelligence techniques: a survey, Eur. J. Oper. Res. 204 (2) (2010) 189–198.]], healthcare [[B.Kuprel Esteva, R.A. Novoa, J. Ko, S.M. Swetter, H.M. Blau, S. Thrun, Dermatologist - level classification of skin cancer with deep neural networks, Nature 546 (7639) (2017) 115–118.]], [[S.A. Leachman, G. Merlino, The final frontier in cancer diagnosis, Nature 542 (2017) 36–38.]], [[T. Mettler, M. Sprenger, R. Winter, Service robots in hospitals: new perspectives on niche evolution and technology affordances, Eur. J. Inf. Syst. 26 (5) (2017) 451–468.]], and marketing [[D. Huang, L. Luo, Consumer preference elicitation of complex products using fuzzy support vector machine active learning, Mark. Sci. 35 (3) (2016).]], [[M. Huang, R.T. Rust, Artificial intelligence in service, J. Service Res. 21 (2) (2018) 155–172.]], [[A. Timoshenko, J.R. Hauser, Identifying customer needs from user-generated content, Mark. Sci. 38 (1) (2019) 1–20.]], [[S. Tong, X. Luo, B. Xu, Personalized mobile marketing strategies, J. Acad. Mark. Sci. 48 (2020) 64–78.]]. For example, recommendation agents or shopbots are widely used in e-business to assist customers with information searching and decision making [[S.Y.X. Komiak, I. Benbasat, The effects of personalization and familiarity on trust and adoption of recommendation agents, MIS Q. 30 (4) (2006) 941–960.]], [[S.Y.X. Komiak, I. Benbasat, A two-process view of trust and distrust building in recommendation agents: a process-tracing study, J. Association for Inf. Syst. 9 (12) (2008) 727–747.]]. An increasing number of business companies are using chatbots to enhance the quality and reduce the costs of sales and customer service [[Z. Latinovic, S.C. Chatterjee, Customer centricity in the digital age, MIT Sloan Manag. Rev. (2019).]]. In the service sector, robots will take on heavy or otherwise for people unpleasant, difficult, or even dangerous tasks [[J. Wirtz, P.G. Patterson, W.H. Kunz, T. Gruber, V. Lu, S. Paluch, A. Martins, Brave new world: service robots in the frontline, J. Service Manag. 29 (5) (2018) 907–931.]]. 

In addition to the applications of AI to business described above, intelligent assistants are becoming an important application of AI. An intelligent assistant (e.g., Apple’s Siri, Microsoft’s Cortana, Microsoft’s Xiaoice, and Baidu’s Duer) is an AI application that engages in conversation via auditory methods, provides information, and carries out certain tasks for individual users. Thus, intelligent assistants provide IT functions that make individual users’ lives and work easier, more efficient and enjoyable. There has been some research on the adoption and usage of intelligent assistants. Moussawi et al. [[S. Moussawi, M. Koufaris, R. Benbunan-Fich, How perceptions of intelligence and anthropomorphism affect adoption of personal intelligent agents, Electronic Mark. (2020).]] found that perceived intelligence and anthropomorphism are significant drivers of intelligent assistant adoption by impacting users’ perceived usefulness, ease of use, enjoyment, and trust. Fernandes and Oliveira [[T. Fernandes, E. Oliveira, Understanding consumers’ acceptance of automated technologies in service encounters: drivers of digital voice assistants adoption, J. Bus. Res. 122 (2021) 180–191.]] indicated that acceptance of digital assistants is determined by functional elements, including perceived usefulness and ease of use, anthropomorphic design factors, such as perceived humanness and social interactivity, and relational factors, such as trust. Sheehan et al. [[B. Sheehan, H. Jin, U. Gottlieb, Customer service chatbots: anthropomorphism and adoption, J. Bus. Res. 115 (2020) 14–24.]] showed that a digital assistant’s anthropomorphic quality in avoiding or resolving miscommunication will significantly enhance user adoption. Lee et al. [[S. Lee, P. Kavya, S.C. Lasser, Social interactions and relationships with an intelligent virtual agent, Int. J. Hum. Comput. Stud. 150 (2021).]] discovered that users may have both cognitive and affective trust in an intelligent assistant, such as Siri, and the trust is impacted by the match between users’ gender and Siri’s gendered voice. Hu et al. [[Q. Hu, Y. Lu, Z. Pan, Y. Gong, Z. Yang, Can AI artifacts influence human cognition? The effects of artificial autonomy in intelligent personal assistants, Int. J. Inf. Manag. 56 (2021).]] studied the mind perception of intelligent assistants and found that users’ perception of an assistant’s competence and warmth significantly influence their continuous usage. Turja et al. [[T. Turja, I. Aaltonen, S. Taipale, A. Oksanen, Robot acceptance model for care (RAM-care): a principled approach to the intention to use care robots, Inf. Manag. 57 (5) (2020) 103–220.]] investigated employees’ use of robots based on the technology acceptance model (TAM) [[F. Davis, Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user acceptance of information technology, MIS Q. 13 (3) (1989) 319—341.]] and found that use intention was predicted by usefulness, enjoyment, social influence, and attitude. 

Users may perceive IT artifacts as social factors instead of just productivity enhancing tools [[S. Al-Natour, I. Benbasat, The adoption and use of IT artifacts: a new interactioncentric model for the study of user-artifacts relationships, J. Associations for Inf. Syst. 10 (9) (2009) 661–685.]]. Users’ trust in a technology is affected by a technology’s humanness. They are likely to develop humanlike relationships with technologies that are more humanlike [[N. Lankton, D. McKnight, J. Tripp, Technology, humanness, and trust: rethinking trust in technology, J. Assoc. Inf. Syst. 16 (10) (2015) 880–918.]]. For example, people may identify with and emotionally attach to robots through teamwork [[S. You, L.P. Robert, Emotional attachment, performance, and viability in teams collaborating with embodied physical action (EPA) robots, J. Assoc. Inf. Syst. 19 (5) (2018) 377–407.]]. It is believed that AI applications need investigation from a new theoretical angle and present opportunities for novel theoretical development in information systems research [[S. Schuetz, V. Venkatesh, The rise of human machines: how cognitive computing systems challenge assumptions of user-system interaction, J. Assoc. Inf. Syst. 21 (2) (2020) 460–482.]], [[I. Seebera, E. Bittnerb, R.O. Briggsc, T. de Vreeded, G. de Vreeded, A. Elkinsc, R. Maiera, A.B. Merza, S. Oeste-Reiße, N. Randrupf, G. Schwabeg, M. Sollnere, ¨ Machines as teammates: a research agenda on AI in team collaboration, Inf. Manag. 57 (2020) 103–174.]]. As discussed above, research has examined the usage of intelligent assistants based on a traditional theoretical framework and found that it can be predicted by usefulness, enjoyment, social influence, and attitudes [[T. Turja, I. Aaltonen, S. Taipale, A. Oksanen, Robot acceptance model for care (RAM-care): a principled approach to the intention to use care robots, Inf. Manag. 57 (5) (2020) 103–220.]]. Compared with other forms of IT, AI-based intelligent assistants are anthropomorphized with more humanlike features and capabilities [[X. Luo, S. Tong, Z. Fang, Z. Qu, Machines versus humans: the impact of AI chatbot disclosure on customer purchases, Mark. Sci. 38 (6) (2019) 937–947.]]. Human users may develop intense humanlike relationships with intelligent assistants. To understand the usage of intelligent assistants, it is essential to further explore the interactions between users and intelligent assistants from the perspective of interpersonal relationship.